They check your problem solving abilities. No HR interviews. I would suggest
you to prepare 2 subs( DS and Digital)
                                                                                                                             
I had scored well in S/w and puzzles section but didn't do well in H/W so
mostly they had asked me in H/w.
                                                                                                                             
1)Design a ckt whose o/p is high for one clock pulse, after every 6th clock
pulse.
                                                                                                                             
I gave 2 solutions.. one is mod 6 counter. I drew the ckt also. Then he said
do the same without using any gates. I said use ring counter of 6 regester
and initial state should be  000001 and then apply clock pulses. the last
bit reprents the desired o/p.
                                                                                                                             
2) if(cond==1)
       Z=x+01
   else
      Z=y+10
                                                                                                                             
x is 2 bit number and y is 3 bit number.
Draw a ckt that code given above( actual code was in Verilog,but then he
wrote me same code in C as above because I don't know verilog). Assume 2 bit
adder or 3 bit adder as a black box.
                                                                                                                             
Ans:  take three 2x1 mux , i/p of mux is o/p of each adder and the "cond"
signle goes to slection i/p of all mux.
                                                                                                                             
Then he asked me to solve soem Questions from the written test which I left
untouched.
I did solve almost all. the were having diagrams so I can't write them here.
SOFTWARE.
SOL: take 1 chocoalte from 1st factory 2 from 2nd and so on and weigh them.
Now subtract this wigh from weigh of 55 chcolates( sigma(1 to 10))
that gives you the number of factory whcih is producing lighter chocolates.
                                                                                                                             
Hope that Helps
ALL THE BEST
~Kuldip
                                                                                                                             

Mostly they ask in data structure.
                                                                                                                             
How to detect a cycle in a link list.
Ans: if we are allowed to modify the list then reverse the link while
traversing, and if we come back to the HEAD node then there is a cycle in a
LL otherwise not.
and if we are not allowed to modify the list then take two pointers say P
and Q. P will visit all the elements in the list and Q will visit alternate
elements. so at some point in time they will meet if there is a cycle in the
linked list.
P=P->next
Q=Q->next->next
                                                                                                                             
both the algos are O(n) time and O(1) space complexity..
                                                                                                                             
How to detect a cycle in a graph.
I said do DFS and if we reach at the same node then there is a cycle in the
list. but the  sol is not efficienent, so he was asking another one. I
couldn't give the same.
                                                                                                                             
He also asked me to solve the Qs in s/w part which I left untouched/wrong.
So ask to anshu to mail some Q from written test.
                                                                                                                             
He asked one puzzle also that was very easy.
                                                                                                                             
There are 10 factoreis of chocolates. one factroy manager is cheating by
making chocolates of his factory little lighter than those of rest.


