

1.Tell me about yourself. 
ans:
 I am a very ambitious person with the immense creativity and passion to discover new things. I am sincere, obidient, hardworking and cool person. I make a very good team member. My most important qualities are the ability to plan jobs with a good foresight. I have a very humble and logical attitude towards life and i always try to look for the good in everything and adopt it. I am always in the look for good oppurtunities to enhance my creativity. Though i like to reason every small thing which occurs around me, i like to imagine of the supernatural. I am stubborn at times but equally considerate to negotiate. I like doing different things and doing things differently. I like adventure and risk in life.  I have good communication skills and i can get intimate with people very easily.

2.What do you want to do with your life? 
ans: I want to utilise my knowledge and experience for the company i work for. In other words, i want to prove myself as a important human resource for the company i work for. In the family front, i want to prove myself as a responsible and duitiful member.

3.Do you have any actual work experience? 
ans: Yes sir, i have already done three projects.....

4.How would you describe your ideal job? 
ans: For me the ideal job is one which gives me immense scope for applying my creativity and knowledge that i have obtained in these years of study. In other words it should give me a scope to commit to myself that my presence in the industrial areana is important and justified.

5.Why did you choose this career? 
ans: Right from the time i had started thinking about my career i had always loved the world of computers bcos it gives me a world with infinite creativity and a scope to apply it to create simply anything that can be thought of. from agri....Moreover it is a field which generates a bulk of the country's revenue and exposes India's presence in the global market.

6.When did you decide on this career? 
7.What goals do you have in your career? 
ans: My primary goal in my career is to prove myself as a able and eficient employee for my employers by applying my strengths and highlight my company in the global arena with my work, to prove myself as a very good team member whose work will not only bnefit the company but his co-workers as well,create something which i can call my own.
8.How do you plan to achieve these goals? 

ans: with full sincerity and dedication towards my job and a very open minded attitude towards my colleagues.
9.How do you evaluate success? 
ans: According to me, success is a relative mental emotion....
10.Describe a situation in which you were successful. 
ans: 2 months but 24 days..IITG Project.
11.What do you think it takes to be successful in this career? 
ans: I think the most important that takes to be successful IT professional is proper planning,optimistic attitude,good teamwork,creativity and a wise mind to re-engineer things to get a new thing in our hand.
12.What accomplishments have given you the most satisfaction in your life? 
ans: The very fact that i am a educated and qualified person and the fact that i also have the abiulity of delivering myself for the betterment of my employers and my country gives me satisfaction.
13.If you had to live your life over again, what would you change? 
ans: no change,if forced journalist.....
14.Would your rather work with information or with people? 
ans: people, bcos i love.....
15.Are you a team player? 
obviously......
16.What motivates you? 
ans: 
17.Why should I hire you? 
18.Are you a goal-oriented person? 
19.Tell me about some of your recent goals and what you did to achieve them. 
20.What are your short-term goals? 
21.What is your long-range objective? 
22.What do you see yourself doing five years from now? 
23.Where do you want to be ten years from now? 
24.Do you handle conflict well? 
25.Have you ever had a conflict with a boss or professor? How did you resolve it? 
26.What major problem have you had to deal with recently? 
27.Do you handle pressure well? 
28.What is your greatest strength? 
29.What is your greatest weakness? 
30.If I were to ask one of your professors to describe you, what would he or she say? 
31.Why did you choose to attend your college? 
32.What changes would you make at your college? 
33.How has your education prepared you for your career? 
34.What were your favorite classes? Why? 
35.Do you enjoy doing independent research? 
36.Who were your favorite professors? Why? 
37.Why is your GPA not higher? 
38.Do you have any plans for further education? 
39.How much training do you think you'll need to become a productive employee? 
40.What qualities do you feel a successful manager should have? 
41.Why do you want to work in the _____ industry? 
42.What do you know about our company? 
ans: Founded in 1994 as a division of Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, Cognizant Technology Solutions began doing large-scale full lifecycle software projects. CTS works in fields related e-business and application management. CTS is also engaged in offshore development and provide services in other fields like wireless, data warehousing and euro-compliance. They also service varied industries like healthcare, finance, information services, retail and restaurant and telecom.

Headquartered in Teaneck, New Jersey, CTS has sales offices located in Chicago, Dallas, Minneapolis, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Toronto, London and Frankfurt. CTS has nine development facilities in India spread across Chennai, Calcutta, Pune and Bangalore.


43.Why are you interested in our company? 
44.Do you have any location preferences? 
45.How familiar are you with the community that we're located in? 
46.Will you relocate? In the future? 
47.Are you willing to travel? How much? 
48.Is money important to you? 
49.How much money do you need to make to be happy? 
50.What kind of salary are you looking for? 
51.Tell me about yourself. 
52.How do you get along with other people? 
53.How would you rate yourself on a scale of one-to-ten? 
54.Can you tell me what things really bother you?
55.Would you like to have yours boss's job? 
56.What did you think of your last boss? 
57.You say you have determination and initiative. What have you done that shows this? 
58.Just going back to your boss - do you feel she could have done a better job? 
59.Your boss obviously helped you a lot but what are some of the things that your boss did that you disliked?
60.What personal characteristics do you think are necessary for success in your life?
61.If you had a choice would you prefer to wok alone or as part of a team?  
62.Would you clearly voice your opinion if you disagreed with the views of your boss or superior? 
63.How would you deal with, say, a supervisor who was unfair and difficult to work under? 
64.Would you consider yourself a born leader? 
65.Do you feel you are much better at your job than your co-workers? 
66.When do you expect a promotion? 
67.What have you learned from your other jobs?  
 






     



