Here are some more  questions:-
                                                                                                                             
1) Imagine a disk spinning like a record player turn table. Half of the disk is
black and the other is white. Assume you have an unlimited number of color
sensors. How many sensors would you have to place around the disk to determine
the direction the disk is spinning? Where would they be placed?
                                                                                                                             
2)Imagine an analog clock set to 12 o'clock. Note that the hour and minute
hands overlap. How many times each day do both the hour and minute hands
overlap? How would you determine the exact times of the day that this occurs?
                                                                                                                             
3)Pairs of primes separated by a single number are called prime pairs. Examples
are 17 and 19. Prove that the number between a prime pair is always divisible
by 6 (assuming both numbers in the pair are greater than 6). Now prove that
there are no 'prime triples.'

4)There is a room with a door (closed) and three light bulbs. Outside the room
there are three switches, connected to the bulbs. You may manipulate the
switches as you wish, but once you open the door you can't change them.
Identify each switch with its bulb.
                                                                                                                             
5)The SF Chronicle has a word game where all the letters are scrambled up and
you have to figure out what the word is. Imagine that a scrambled word is 5
characters long:
How many possible solutions are there?
What if we know which 5 letters are being used?
Develop an algorithm to solve the word.
                                                                                                                             
6)There are 4 women who want to cross a bridge. They all begin on the same
side. You have 17 minutes to get all of them across to the other side. It is
night. There is one flashlight. A maximum of two people can cross at one time.
Any party who crosses, either 1 or 2 people, must have the flashlight with
them. The flashlight must be walked back and forth, it cannot be thrown, etc.
Each woman walks at a different speed. A pair must walk together at the rate of
the slower woman's pace.
Woman 1: 1 minute to cross
Woman 2: 2 minutes to cross
Woman 3: 5 minutes to cross
Woman 4: 10 minutes to cross
                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                             
For example if Woman 1 and Woman 4 walk across first, 10 minutes have elapsed
when they get to the other side of the bridge. If Woman 4 then returns with the
flashlight, a total of 20 minutes have passed and you have failed the mission.
What is the order required to get all women across in 17 minutes? Now, what's
the other way?

7)If you have two buckets, one with red paint and the other with blue paint,
and you take one cup from the blue bucket and poor it into the red bucket. Then
you take one cup from the red bucket and poor it into the blue bucket. Which
bucket has the highest ratio between red and blue? Prove it mathematically.
                                                                                                                             
8)Implement an algorithm to sort a linked list. Why did you pick the method you
did? Now do it in O(n) time
                                                                                                                             
9)Add numbers in base n (not any of the popular ones like 10, 16, 8 or 2 -- I
hear that Charles Simonyi, the inventor of Hungarian Notation, favors -2 when
asking this question).
                                                                                                                             
10)Implement an algorithm that takes two strings as input, and returns the
intersection of the two, with each letter represented at most once. Now speed
it up. Now test it.
                                                                                                                             
11)Implement an algorithm to print out all files below a given root node.
                                                                                                                             
12)Given that you are receiving samples from an instrument at a constant rate,
and you have constant storage space, how would you design a storage algorithm
that would allow me to get a representative readout of data, no matter when I
looked at it? In other words, representative of the behavior of the system to
date.
                                                                                                                             
13)The following asm block performs a common math function, what is it?
cwd xor ax, dx
sub ax, dx

14)Imagine this scenario:
I/O completion ports are communictaions ports which take handles to files,
sockets, or any other I/O. When a Read or Write is submitted to them, they
cache the data (if necessary), and attempt to take the request to completion.
Upon error or completion, they call a user-supplied function to let the users
application know that that particular request has completed. They work
asynchronously, and can process an unlimited number of simultaneous requests.
Design the implementation and thread models for I/O completion ports. Remember
to take into account multi-processor machines.
                                                                                                                             
15)How would you print out the data in a binary tree, level by level, starting
at the top?
                                                                                                                             
16)How would you print out the data in a binary tree, level by level, starting
at the leftmost bottom node (assume the node has pointer to the parent node)?
optimize it.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                             
Applications :-
                                                                                                                             
1)How can computer technology be integrated in an elevator system for a hundred
story office building? How do you optimize for availability? How would
variation of traffic over a typical work week or floor or time of day affect
this?
                                                                                                                             
2)How would you implement copy-protection on a control which can be embedded in
a document and duplicated readily via the Internet?
                                                                                                                             
3)Define a user interface for indenting selected text in a Word document.
Consider selections ranging from a single sentence up through selections of
several pages. Consider selections not currently visible or only partially
visible. What are the states of the new UI controls? How will the user know
what the controls are for and when to use them?
                                                                                                                             
4)How would you redesign an ATM?
                                                                                                                             
5)Suppose we wanted to run a microwave oven from the computer. What kind of
software would you write to do this?
                                                                                                                             
6)What is the difference between an Ethernet Address and an IP address?
How would you design a coffee-machine for an automobile.
                                                                                                                             
7)If you could add any feature to Microsoft Word, what would it be?
                                                                                                                             
8)How would you go about building a keyboard for 1-handed users?
                                                                                                                             
9)How would you build an alarm clock for deaf people?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                             
Thinkers :-
                                                                                                                             
1) How are M&Ms made?
                                                                                                                             
2)If you had a clock with lots of moving mechanical parts, you took it apart
piece by piece without keeping track of the method of how it was disassembled,
then you put it back together and discovered that 3 important parts were not
included; how would you go about reassembling the clock?
                                                                                                                             
3)If you had to learn a new computer language, how would you go about doing it?
                                                                                                                           
4)You have been assigned to design Bill Gates bathroom. Naturally, cost is not
a consideration. You may not speak to Bill.
                                                                                                                             
5)What was the hardest question asked of you so far today?
                                                                                                                             
6)If MS told you we were willing to invest $5 million in a start up of your
choice, what business would you start? Why?
                                                                                                                             
7)If you could gather all of the computer manufacturers in the world together
into one room and then tell them one thing that they would be compelled to do,
what would it be?
                                                                                                                             
8)Explain a scenario for testing a salt shaker.
                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                             
9)Why is it that when you turn on the hot water in any hotel, for example, the
hot water comes pouring out almost instantaneously?
                                                                                                                             
10)Suppose you go home, enter your house/apartment, hit the light switch, and
nothing happens - no light floods the room. What exactly, in order, are the
steps you would take in determining what the problem was?
                                                                                                                             
11)Interviewer hands you a black pen and says nothing but "This pen is red."
