Infosys Sample Test For Campus RecruitmentInfosys Sample Test #7Home
1.An escalator is descending at constant speed. 
   A walks down and takes 50 steps to reach the bottom.
   B runs down and takes 90 steps in the same time as A takes 10 steps. 
   How many steps are visible when the escalator is not operating? Ans: 150 steps
2. Every day a cyclist meets a train at a particular crossing.
The road is straight before the crossing and both are travelling in the same direction.
The cyclist travels with a speed of 10 Kmph.One day the cyclist comes late by 25 min. and meets the train 5km before the 
crossing. What is the speed of the train?Ans: 60 kmph
3. There are five persons with surnames Mukherjee, Misra, Iyer, Patil and Sharma.
There are 4 persons having first or middle name of Kumar, 3 persons with 
Mohan, 2 persons with Dev and 1 Anil. Either Mukherjee and Patil have a first or middle name of Dev or Misra and 
Iyer have their first or middle name of Dev.
Of Mukherkjee and Misra, either both of them have a first or middle name of 
Mohan or neither have a first or  middle name of Mohan.
Either Iyer or Sharma has a first or middle name of Kumar but not both.
Who has the first or middle name of Anil? 
Ans:    Kumar Misra Dev
        Mohan Iyer Dev
        Kumar Patil Mohan
        Mohan Sharma Kumar 
4.  Boys are allowed to watch football at C.V.Raman auditorium subjected to 
conditions. 
  The boy over age 16 can wear overcoat 
  No boy over age  15 can wear cap 
  To watch the football either he has to wear overcoat or cap or both 
  A boy with an umberella or above 16 or both cannot wear sweater. 
  Boys must either not watch football or wear sweater. 
   What is the appearence of the boy who is watching football. 
5. A bird keeper has got P pigeons, M mynas and S sparrows. 
    The keeper goes for lunch leaving his assistant to watch the birds. 
  Suppose p=10, m=5, s=8 when the bird keeper comes back, the assistant informs 
  the x birds have escaped. The bird keeper exclaims: "Oh no! All my sparrows 
  are gone."  How many birds flew away? 
  When the bird keeper comes back, the assistant told him that x birds have 
  escaped. The keeper realised that atleast 2 sparrows have escaped. 
  What is minimum no of birds that can escape? 
6. Answer the following questions based on the conditions from the choices A, B, 
C, D, E as described below:
(A) if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 
(B) if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 2 
(C) if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 and 2 
(D) if a definete conclusion can be drawn from condition 1 or 2 
(E) no conclusion can be drawn using both conditions 
  person 1 says N<5 
  person says N>5 
  person 3 says 3N>20 
  person 4 says 3N>10 
  person 5 says N<8 
What is the value of N? 
a) 1. No of persons who speak false being less than no of persons who tells the 
truth. 
    2. Person 2 is telling the truth. 
b) 1. no of persong telling the truth is greater than no of persons telling lie
    2. person 5 is telling the truth. 
7. There are N coins on a table and there are two players A & B.
    You can take 1 or 2 coins at a time. 
    The person who takes the last coin is the loser. 
    A always starts first. 
  If N=7 
  (a) A can always win by taking two coins in his first chanse 
  (b) B can win only if A takes two coins in his first chance. 
  (c) B can always win by proper play 
  (d) none of the above 
  2. A can win by proper play if N is equal to 
  (a) 13  (b) 37  (c) 22  (d) 34  (e) 48 
  Ans: (e.) 
  3. B can win by proper play if N is equal to 
  (a) 25  (b)26  (c) 32  (d) 41  (e) none 
  4. if N<4, can A win by proper play always?
  (a) Yes  (b) No 
8. Two twins have vertain peculiar charcteristics. 
    One of them always lies on Monday, Wednesday, Friday. 
    The other always lies on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. 
    On the other days they tell the truth. You are given a conversation. 
  Person A-- today is Sunday my name is Anil 
  Person B -- today is Tuesday, my name is Bill 
What day is today?   Ans: Today is Tuesday.
9. There is a safe with a 5 digit number as the key.
    The 4th digit is 4 greater than second digit, while 3rd digit is 3 less than 
2nd digit. 
    The 1st digit is thrice the last digit. 
    There are 3 pairs whose sum is 11. 
    Find the number.  Ans: 65292
10. A hotel has two wings,the east wing and the west wing.
Some east wing rooms but not all have an ocean view.All west wing rooms have a harbour view.
The charge for all rooms is identical, except as follows : 
  Extra charge for all harbour view rooms on or above the 3rd floor 
  Extra charge for all ocean view rooms except those without balcony 
  Extra charge for some harbour rooms on the first two floor & some east wing 
  rooms without ocean view but having kitchen facilities. 
Which of the following cannot be determined on the basis of the nformation given:
I.   Whether there are any rooms without a balcony for which an extra charge is 
imposed.
II.  Whether any room without a kitchen or a view involves an extra charge.
III. Whether two extra charges are impsed for any room.
(A) I only
(B) II only
(C) III only
(D) II and III only
(E) I, II and III
(This question is from 1999 Barrons GRE Guide model Test 3 - section 6, question 22) 
Ans: (A)