
 
 
   Mail       Addresses       Calendar       Notepad    
 
 

     complaint     question 
 compliment    suggestion 
   
 
 
 

	
	 INFOSYS PAPER 2001 AT MNREC, ALLD.

there r 2 parts i)puzzles (1 Hr.) (10 questions)
	      ii)essay  (15Mins.)
        the topics of essay were
                               (i)  matchfixing, and the fundas to cure 
it.
			or
	             (ii) is the technology today is making robot out of 
human? your views.

		PUZZLES
   
1. two persons standing back to back each other at a small platform. an 
express train which don't have its stopage at that station. when the 
engine of the train passes them they start walking in opposite direction 
parallel to the rails. they walk until the tail of the train passes 
them. one person covers 30m & other 40m. what is the length of the train. 
the speed of the two persons is the same and the speed of the train is 
uniform.

2.   16*12*2*3=99
	complete the expression using appropriate operators
	ans:- 16*12/2+3

3. A person buys 4 things & paid Rs 6.75. when he returned his friends 
told him that he had paid the money by multiplying the costs of 
individual products instead of adding. but he replied that multiplyplication & 
addition of the costs is the same. if the cost of one product is Rs. 
1.50, find the costs of the other products.
				ans:- Rs. 1.00,2.00,2.25

4.    A lady climbs a hill at a speed of 2 miles/h & return back with a 
speed of 4 miles/h. if the time taken by her to climb & come back is 6 
hours find the distance from the starting point to the top of the hill.
			ans:- 8 miles  .

5.  Three golfers Tom ,Herry & Dick  are walking in a line.
	(i) the first says that the person in the middle is Herry ,  
	(ii) the person in the middle says that i am Dick .
	(iii) the last person says that the person in the middle is Tom.
     Tom is a good golfer he never tells a lie,Harry has a worst 
reputation he always speaks lie,and Dick sometimes tells truth.
        tell the sequence in which they are walking.

6.  Andy, Brian, Credic, Dave are architect, barber, caseworker, and 
dentist, but not in that order. 
	 (i) at least one but not all has their  first letter of the name same 
as his 	      profession's first letter.
	 (ii) architect does not have the letter 'r' in his name.
	(iii) dentist and barber have only one common letter in their names. 
now find the occupation of each person.
	

7.  8 ligs & 15 kips makes 51 tors in 10 hrs, 14 ligs & 6 kips makes 
48.4 tors in 12 hrs.
find the individual rates of 1 kip and 1 lig ( in tors/h).


	INTERVIEW

1. anything u want to know from us (infoscions).  
2. what were ur p c m marks in 12th and 10th.
3. where u wanted to be posted in infosys.
4.didn't u try to get comp.sc. 
5. why u want to join infy.
6. have u done any software project.

7. questions from area of interest.
    mech
  1.what is the difference between supercharger and turbocharger.
  2.what is the diff between petrol engine and disel engine.
  3.why is the size of disel engine and the petrol engine is different.
  4.bending movement diagram.
  5.types of external combustion engines, IC engines,
  6. principles of steam turbines.
  
 
     tronics
  1. how will u make NAND gate from an AND gate without invertor. 
  2. what is time division multiplexing (TDM) used in radio comm.
  3. program of 8085.
	multiplication,
	interchange of 2 nos.


	  


 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Click a  smiley to send an instant message to an online friend               = Online,  = Offline 
        Next | Inbox   - Choose Folder -[New Folder]   
    as attachmentinline text  Download Attachments  


     complaint     question 
 compliment    suggestion 
   
 

Yahoo! Messenger - Send instant messages to friends!  
Address Book  Alerts  Auctions  Bill Pay  Bookmarks  Briefcase  Broadcast  Calendar  Chat  Classifieds  Clubs  Companion  Domains  Experts 텴ames  Greetings  Home Pages  Invites  Mail  Maps  Member Directory  Messenger  My Yahoo!  News  PayDirect  People Search  Personals  Photos  Shopping  Sports  Stock Quotes  TV  Travel  Weather  Yahooligans  Yellow Pages  more...  
 

Privacy Policy- Terms of Service - Guidelines 
Copyright  1994-2001 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved. 
