Aravindan Gunathilagaraj

I made in Newgen software limited and will send u the questions that i
remember so that u can update that and put it in your website.
the apti paper consist of two parts- part a and part b.

part A -consist of questions on networking,OS ,DS,C ,GUI fundas.
Some of the questions that i remember are:
1.Kerberos is an
ans:authentication protocol
2.Give the principle of IEEE802.3(Ethernet)
ans:CSMA/CD
3.Give the principle of IEEE802.5
ans:token ring management
4.CRC(Cyclic redundancy follows)
ans:modulo 2 arithmetic
5.Name the layers of OSI model that perform the following functions:
a)address resolution - network layer
b)routing algorithms - network layer
c)flow control - transport layer
d)synchronisation by inserting check points in data - session layer
6.Win 32 follows
ans:c callin convention
7.win 16 follows
ans:pascal call in convention
8.There was one question in padding of data structures
9.one question willbe on DOS(distributed operating system)
10.How do you convert a bus to a hub?
11.What does fork() statement do?
ans:invokes a child process and returns the id associated with itto the
parent process
12.Name atleast two protocols that are used by DLL to transmit frames?
stop and wait protocol and sliding window protocol
13.There will be a sure question on Public key encrytpion scheme
14.Windows NT supports Preemptive multitasking
15.Question on round robin algorithm
16.Others were simple questions on C
PArt-B
This will have codes in c and C++ and we will be asked to correct the
codes to make it more efficient and write the output in other cases


Part-B
This is a psychometric test for 1 hr and Part-A is for 30 mts .
this section will have 100 questions,
First there will be 50 statements(i.e 25 pairs) and for every pair we will
have to select one which suits/fits in your opinion
Eg:
1)Making a job in these modern days is by mere luck and has got nothing to
do with intelligence level
Making a job in these modern days is just by intelligence level alone.
you can select any of them but make sure that you maintain the same view
to the other questions.they will only how much your answers will correlate
among them selves.there will be another question indirectly checking
whether you believe in luck/hard work and in this you will have to support
the view that you have already given.
2)There will be a list of 50 adjectives and you will have to select 10
adjectives that suits you most.
3)There will be 20 sets each containing 4 words and you will have to give
them priority.
Give priority 4 to the one that suits u more and 3 to the lesser one and
do till 1.
for eg:
{short tempered,patience,understanding and refinement}
you can rank itas:
refinement-4(if u prefer that this suits u more)
understanding -3
patience -2
shorttempered -1(this is given the least priority to indicate that this
suits you the least)
3) there will be 10 tight corners given to youand youwill be aked how do
you tackle them.

The interview will be mostly on the projects that uhave done and will have
simple questions on C and C++.
ALL the BEST


