I Am A Rock


A winter's day
In a deep and dark December;
I am alone,
Gazing from my window to the streets below
On a freshly fallen silent shroud of snow.
I am a rock,
I am an island.

I've built walls,
A fortress deep and mighty,
That none may penetrate.
I have no need of friendship; friendship causes pain.
It's laughter and it's loving I disdain.
I am a rock,
I am an island.

Don't talk of love,
But I've heard the words before;
It's sleeping in my memory.
I won't disturb the slumber of feelings that have died.
If I never loved I never would have cried.
I am a rock,
I am an island.

I have my books
And my poetry to protect me;
I am shielded in my armor,
Hiding in my room, safe within my womb.
I touch no one and no one touches me.
I am a rock,
I am an island.

And a rock feels no pain;
And an island never cries.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"The reason I killed John Lennon was to promote the reading of J D Salinger's Catcher in the Rye."  Mark Chapman(assassin: John Lennon)(as reported by a witness)

Seldom, in the history of literature has a book created an impact of such magnitude on the ensuing generations, as Catcher in the Rye  following  the initial release of the book. It was banned in America after the first publication.
Jerome Davis Salinger was born in 1919 in NewYork. He is at present in North Hampshire living the life of a recluse, having not published any book for about  34 years.
Where does this book lead you? What is it about? its about human perceptions, now don't you go thinking that its all psychologicals stuff and head shrinking business, on the contrary its all about a teenage holden caulfield, who has just recently been restigated from his school due to poor performance. before returning home he takes a little vacation and intends to explore his understanding and feelings. He finds a lot of things insane in this world and manages to make beleive that majority of the people around are "phonies" a designation he is totally obsessed with. as one progress 
, it is 34 years since he last published anything,'s producers needed to justify their interest in Salinger, they could easily illustrate a legitimate public interest - simply the impact Salinger's 1951 novel Catcher in the Rye has had on the world. In its main character, Holden Caulfield, Salinger created one of the defining points of teenage angst and rebellion. It helped shaped each generation that came after it. His unpredictable and capricious dislikes of people, things or even words, strikes powerful memories of teenage-hood. oy Ackerman said, "penetrated literature's last Fort Knox". owing up in 1950s New York, has been expelled school for poor achievement once again. In an attempt to deal  Caulfield begins to probe and investigate his own sense of emptiness and isolation, before finally declaring that he world is full of 'phonies' with each one out for their own phony gain, is Holden actually the one who is going insane, or is it society which has lost it's mind for failing to see the hopelessness of their own lives?thought provoking novel as a fascinating and enlightening description of our
La Isla Bonita
written by Madonna, Pat Leonard, and Bruce Gaitsch
Track 7, Time: 4:01
-------------------------
(Spoken:)
      Como puede ser verdad
      How could it be true? 

Last night I dreamt of San Pedro
Just like I'd never gone, I knew the song
A young girl with eyes like the desert
It all seems like yesterday, not far away

Chorus:

      Tropical the island breeze
      All of nature wild and free
      This is where I long to be
      La isla bonita
      And when the samba played
      The sun would set so high
      Ring through my ears and sting my eyes
      Your Spanish lullaby



      The beautiful island






      I fell in love with San Pedro
      Warm wind carried on the sea, he called to me
      Te dijo te amo
      I prayed that the days would last
      They went so fast


      He told you, "I love you"



(chorus)

I want to be where the sun warms the sky
When it's time for siesta you can watch them go by
Beautiful faces, no cares in this world
Where a girl loves a boy, and a boy loves a girl

Last night I dreamt of San Pedro
It all seems like yesterday, not far away

(chorus twice)

      La la la la la la la
      Te dijo te amo
      La la la la la la la
      El dijo que te ama

      He told you, "I love you"

      He said he loves you


 Sad But True

            Hey, I'm your life
            I'm the one who takes you there
            hey, I'm your life
            I'm the one who cares
            they, they betray
            I'm your only true friend now 
            they, they'll betray
            I'm forever there
            I'm your dream, make you real
            I'm your eyes when you must steal
            I'm your pain when you can't feel
            sad but true
            I'm your dream, mind astray
            I'm your eyes while you're away
            I'm your pain while you repay
            you know it's sad but true
            you, you're my mask
            you're my cover, my shelter
            you, you're my mask
            you're the one who's blamed
            do, do my work
            do my dirty work, scapegoat
            do, do my deeds
            for you're the one who's shamed
            I'm your dream, make you real
            I'm your eyes when you must stea
            l I'm your pain when you can't feel
            sad but true
            I'm your dream, mind astray
            I'm your eyes while you're away
            I'm your pain while you repay
            you know it's sad but true
            hate, I'm your hate
            I'm your hate when you want love
            pay, pay the price
            pay, for nothing's fair
            hey, I'm your life
            I'm the one who took you here
            hey, I'm your life
            and I no longer care
            I'm your dream, make you real
            I'm your eyes when you must steal
            I'm your pain when you can't feel
            sad but true
            I'm your truth, telling lies
            I'm your reasoned alibis
            I'm inside open your eyes
            I'm you
            Sad But True

             

            - Main Index 
