at sun ppl take 1 to 1 interviews, there's no panel system.
Hence there are multiple rounds.
Last two rounds were by video conferencing with their US team members
I don't remember all round 3 and 4 questions.


Questions are highly repetitive.

Sun Interview

Round 1.

Lot of Architecture questions
	MESI protocol
	Cache coherence
	What is Register Renaming?
	How can we pass data values from one stage of pipeline to another stage,
	before tht value has been written back?
Data Structures
	If u hav a function which finds the shortest path
	how will u find longest path using it?
C++
	Question on virtual functions
C
	string array
	array dereferencing
	assigning a different value to an array name


Round 2.

Architecture
	MESI protocol
	NUMA Vs. UMA
	Cache coherence
	Memory Interleaving
	why should we keep number of memory banks prime?
	Why is the num. of sets in a set associative cache a power of 2?
	Why is the size of cache in a power of 2?
	Difference between set associative and direct mapped cache. which is preferable
	Can u name one condition when associative will work better than direct mapped in terms
	of Hits.
	some discussion on types of misses
	What is TLB? Is it flushed every time context switch occurs? is it h/w or s/w?

Data Structures

	Write a function to copy one string to another. [Dontr forget to append a NULL in the end]

	If u have a function to find min spanning tree, how will u find max spanning tree.
	why cant u find longest path by same logic?
	Finding cycle in a linked list
Puzzles
	There are 5 persons A, B, C, D, E they have to distribute 100 Rs.
	first E will propose a solution if majority agrees, then it will be
	distributed, or E will be killed, and D will propose distribution.
	All of them are greedy, and blood thirsty and everyone wants to save his life.
	What will be the final distribution.
	
	A question on probability(an easy one)
	
Round 3.
Architecture
	A question on ordering of reads and writes.
	Pipelining - explain simple pipelining
	why are temp registers used in pipelining?
	Out of order issue - pros and cons
	which branch prediction techniques you know about?
Data structure

C
	Gave declaration of a pointer to function taking pointer to integer as argument and returning integer.

Puzzles	
	Take a 4X4 chess board, remove 2 opposite corners of the board, take a rectangle which
is equal to 2 sqrs and cover the board using tht piece.
	Sachcha Jhootha
	Pills 
	Socks

Round 4.
archi.
	Among Pipelining, Cache coherence, branch prediction which one is your favorite and why?
	what is the main problem with out of order issue?
	
