INTERVIEW SKILLS
----------------

ALWAYS KNOCK THE DOOR BEFORE ENTERING.

TEN THINGS THAT AN INTERVIEWER LOOKS IN YOU!
1. Family Background
2. Education 
3. Experience 
4. Stability
5. Initiative 
6. General Ability 
7. Interpersonal Skills 
8. Confidence 
9. Aptitude
10. Pleasant Looks

Always remember to write in to say thank you after an interview. 
It increases recall. It also tells your potential employer you 
have etiquette. For all you know, this might fill in for the lack 
of experience.

Short Answers - Keep your answers short and to the point. 
Do not ramble. 
Always be honest and avoid negative statements. 

Sell yourself - If you don't no one else will. Use facts and figures 
to quantify your experience and ability. Tell them the things that 
will benefit the company if they hire you. Show interest in the job - 
If you act cool they may not realize that you want the job. Companies 
want someone who is interested and enthusiastic about the job and the 
company. Don't make the hiring authority guess if you want the job. 
Do not close any doors - No matter what you see or hear during the 
interview don't overreact. Obstacles may come up regarding money, 
relocation or other issues that can be resolved later if you leave 
the issue open. 

Describe yourself? 

Why are you better than the next person? 

Your strengths and weakness and what you are doing to rectify your weaknesses? 

Information regarding what kind of work your parents do ?

The magazines and newspapers you read , their cost and at times their editors ; 
and that days headlines ?

You prefer a team sport to an individual sport ?

Why you want to join this particular company and not some other one. ?

What are your career objectives ( long term and short term ) ?

Why you plan to switch over to software field ( for those who are from streams 
besides computers ) ?

At the end of the interview they ask whether you have any questions to ask 
them. It is better to stick to one or two questions regarding the company 
and not dwelve into how you performed or the pay package or any personal 
questions to the interviewer.




