INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

(1) Tell us about yourself . 
(2) Tell us about your family background. 
(3) What do you know about our company?
(4) Why should we choose you over someone else?
(5) What is your biggest weakness?
(6) What is your greatest failure?
(7) Describe your best and worst boss?
(8) Tell me something about yourself?
(9) Why did you leave your last job?
(10) How can you contribute to this company in this job?

On Your Career

What future career plans you have?
Why did you choose your particular career?
What qualifications do you have that make you feel you would be successful in your field? 
Do you prefer any specific geographic location? Why? Is this a good reason?
What do you think determines a person's progress in a good company?
What personal characteristics are necessary for success in your chosen field? 
Do you prefer working with others or by yourself? 
What kind of boss do you prefer? 
What do you know about opportunities in the field in which you are trained? 
What do you expect to be doing in five, ten or fifteen years? 
Do you prefer to work in a large or small city? 
Would you prefer to work for a large or a small company?
What are the disadvantages of your chosen field? 

On Your Education

In what school activities have you participated? Why? Which ones did you enjoy the most?
What courses did you like best? Least? Why? 
How did you spend your vacations while in high school? 
Do you feel you have received a good general training?
Do you think that your extra-curricular activities were worth the time that you devoted to them? Why?
Have you ever changed your major field of interest while studying? Why?
Do you feel you have done the best scholastic work of which you are capable?
How did you happen to go to college or vocational school?
Have you ever had any difficulty getting along with fellow students and teacher? 
Which of your school years was the most difficult? 
Did you enjoy going to school?
Do you consider your education valuable? Why? 



On Your Personal Life

What types of books have you read?
Do you enjoy sports as a participant? As an observer?
What do you do to keep in good physical condition? 
Have you ever had any serious illness or injury? 

Self-Evaluation

Are you primarily interested in making money or do you feel that service to humanity is a satisfactory accomplishment? Can you take instructions without feeling upset? 
Do you like routine work?
Do you like regular hours? 
What is your major weakness? 
Define cooperation.
Will you fight to get ahead?
Do you demand attention? 
Have you an analytical mind?
Are you eager to please?
Is it an effort for you to be tolerant of persons with a background and interest different from your own?
What are your own special abilities? Strengths? 
Do you like to travel? 
How about overtime work? 
What have you done which shows initiative and willingness to work? 
What is success according to you?

Your Positive points.

Your negative points.

Why are you the best person for the job?

Tell us about yourself.

Outline personal data, hobbies, and interests.

Give an overview of your personality and work habits.

Give three specific examples of your personality traits and accomplishments


What are you looking for in a position?

"I'm looking for an opportunity to apply my skills and contribute to the growth of the company while helping create some advancement opportunities for myself."

"I'm looking for an organization that will appreciate my contributions and reward my efforts."

"I'm looking for a position that will allow me to make enough money to support my lifestyle. I am a hard worker and will give a concerted effort to earn the money I need."

What do you know about our organization?

"I've done a little homework and here is what I know about your organization...(cite examples)".

"Everything I've seen and heard makes me want to be a part of this organization. I understand your industry is ________ and your primary customer is __________. A particularly exciting part of your business appears to be _________ ."

"I know enough to say that this is an exciting place to work. It is fit for my career goals."

What is your weakness?

I get really frustrated with my co-workers when they whine about everything.

I don't "toot my own horn". I like to go in and get the job done and I don't dwell on who gets credit.

I don't think I have a weakness.

How would you characterize your work style?

I am a very driven person. I make a list of what needs to be done and then tackle the items until I've completed the job.

I show up whenever I'm scheduled to work.

I haven't held a job yet so I don't know what my work style will be.

What are your strengths?

"I am good at giving constructive criticism to my co-workers. This honesty is something I'm very proud of and have found essential to having open working relationships."

"I consider myself to be very consistent. I have proven myself to be someone who can be counted upon to do what is expected."

"I would have to chose between two skills. I am very proud of my determination and ability to get things done. At the same time, I am very proud of my analytical abilities and problem solving skills. These skills combine to give me a unique ability to solve problems and then implement the solutions."


Are you willing to relocate?
What are your short term goals?
Where do you want to be in 5 years?
Before we go any further, what kind of money do you need to make?



