



			INFOSYS
			--------
			



1) There are two balls touching each other circumferencically.
The radius of the big ball is 4 times the diameter of the small
ball.The outer small ball rotates in anticlockwise direction
circumferencically over the bigger one at the rate of 16 rev/sec.
The bigger wheel also rotates anticlockwise at Nrev/sec. what is
'N' for the horizontal line from the centre of small wheel always
is horizontal.

2)     1 2 3 4
     + 3 4 5 5
     ----------
       4 6 8 9
     - 2 3 4 5
     ----------
       2 3 4 4
     + 1 2 5 4
     ------------
       3 6 9 8

 Q)  Strike off any digit from each number in seven rows (need not
 be at same place) and combine the same operations with 3 digit numbers
 to get the same addition. After this strike off another digit from all
 and add all the No.s to get the same 2 digit No. perform the same
 process again with 1 digit No.s. Give the ' no.s in 7 rows at
 each stage.

3) there is a safe with a 5 digit No. The 4th digit is 4 greater than
second digit, while 3rd digit is 3 less than 2nd digit. The 1st digit
is thrice the last digit. There are 3 pairs whose sum is 11. Find
the number.  Ans) 65292.

4) there are 2 guards Bal and Pal walking on the side of a wall of a
wearhouse(12m X 11m) in opposite directions. They meet at a point and
Bal says to Pal " See you again in the other side". After a few moments
of walking Bal decides to go back for a smoke but he changes his 
direction again to his previous one after 10 minutes of walking in
the other(opposite) direction remembering that Pal will be waiting
for to meet.If Bal and Pal walk 8 and 11 feet respectively, how
much distance they would have travelled before meeting again.

5)          xxx)xxxxx(xxx
		3xx
		-------
		 xxx
		 x3x
		 ------
		  xxx
		  3xx
		  ------

   Q) Find the 5 digit No.
    Hint: 5 is used atleast once in the calculation.
6) Afly is there 1 feet below the ceiling right across a wall length
is 30m at equal distance from both the ends. There is a spider 1 feet
above floor right across the long wall eqidistant from both the ends.
If the width of the room is 12m and 12m, what distance is to be 
travelled by the spider to catch the fly? if it takes the shortest
path.

7) Ramesh sit around a round table with some other men. He has one 
rupee more than his right person and this person in turn has 1 rupee
more than the person to his right and so on, Ramesh decided to give
1 rupee to his right & he in turn 2 rupees to his right and 3 rupees
to his right & so on. This process went on till a person has 
'no money' to give to his right. At this time he has 4 times the
money to his right person. How many men are there along with Ramesh
and what is the money with poorest fellow.


8)Question related to probabilities of removing the red ball from a
basket,given that two balls are removed from the basket and the other
ball is red. The basket contains blue,red,yellow balls.

9)Venkat has 1boy&2daughters.The product of these children age is 72.
The sum of their ages give the door numberof Venkat.Boy is elder of
three.Can you tell the ages of all the three.

                           ANALYTICAL
			   ----------
1)L:says all of my other 4 friends have money
M:says that P said that exact one has money
N:says that L said that precisely two have money
O:says that M said that 3 of others have money.
P:Land N said that they have money.
   all are liers.Who has money&who doesn't have?

2)A hotel has two,the east wing and the west wing.some east wing rooms
but not all have an ocean view(OV).All WW have a harbour view(HV).The
charge for all rooms is identical, except as follows
* Extra charge for all HV rooms on or above the 3rd floor
* Extra charge for all OV rooms except those without balcony
* Extra charge for some HV rooms on the first two floor&some EW rooms
without OV but having kitchen facilities. (GRE modrl Test 3-question
						 1J-22)
3)Post man has a data of name surname door no.pet name of 4 families.
But only one is correct for each family.There are a set of statements
&questions.
4)4 couples have a party.Depending on the set of statements,find who
insulted whom and who is the host of the party.
5)5 women given some of their heights(tall,medium,short)Hair( long,
plainted),stards(Black or Brown), sari,2 medium,2-short.Tall->no
sari.Plainted->medium.Answer the combinations.


1) A person has to go both Northwards&Southwards in search of a job.
He decides to go by the first train he encounters.There are trains for
every 15 min both southwards and northwards.First train towards south 
is at 6:00 A.M. and that towards North is at 6:10 .If the person arrives
at any random time,what is the probability that he gets into a train
towards North.
2) A person has his own coach&whenever he goes to railway station he
takes his coach.One day he was supposed to reach the railway station
at 5 O'clock.But he finished his work early and reached at 3 O'clock.
Then he rung up his residence and asked to send the coach immediately.
He came to know that the coach has left just now to tje railway station.
He thought that the coach has left just now to the railway station.He
thought that he should not waste his time and started moving towards
his residence at the speed of 3mi/hr.On the way,he gets the coach and
reaches home at 6 o'clock.How far is his residence from railway
station.

3)Radha,Geeta&Revathi went for a picnic.After a few days they forgot the
date,day and month on which they went to picnic.Radha said that it was 
onThursday,May 8 and Geeta said that it was Thursday May 10.Revathi
said Friday Jun 8.Now one of them told all things wrongly,others one
thing wrong and the last two things wrongly.If April 1st is tuesday
what is the right day,date and month?






