Infosys Paper:
                                                                                                                             
1) In a city, the natives speak only lies and the visitors speak only truth. A new person came to the city and one day he is
having his lunch around a table. He has a sales person in front of him taking the lunch along with him.There is another
woman also who is taking lunch on another table. He wanted to know whether the sales person is a native or a visitor.  So,
instead of asking him directly he asked the sales person to go to woman and to enquire about her. Then the sales person did
exactly like that and returned back and replied "She is a visitor". Then what did he conclude about the sales person, is he
a visitor or a native?
Ans: He is a visitor (I assumed the woman to be a native)
2) One day three thieves Tommy, Jimmy and Paul have been caught red handed. Tommy said that he did not do the theft and the
thief may be any one of the other two. Jimmy said that he did not do the theft and the thief may be anyone of the other two.
Paul also said that he did not do the theft and the thief may be any one of the other two. But the police came to know that
Tommy lied and that there is only one thief. Who is the thief?
Ans: Tommy
3) In a circular race track, one cyclist has observed that 1/5 th of the racers ahead of him and 5/6 th of the racers behind
him add upto the total number of racers. So how many racers are taking part in total?
Ans: 31 (out of 31 excluding him, there are only 30, now apply the conditions and see)
4) A man is going on a bike on a highway. After a while, he observed a kilometre stone with two digits. After one hour
journey, he observed another kilometre stone with the digits reversed. After another hour he observed the stone with a zero
placed between the two digits (the digits may be reversed also). What is the speed of the bike?
Ans: 45 km/hr (16, 16+45=61, 61+45=106)
5) I am not too sure about the data given. It may be of this kind. You better refer to any text book of puzzles like GRE
analytical reasoning section. This carries 8 marks.
It consists of the arrangement of 5 men M,N,P,Q,R and their 5 wives S,T,U,V,W.
(i) All men will sit only in the odd numbered places.
(ii) The wives sit by the right hand side of their husbands.
(iii) W shall never sit at the atmost right end and she is not a wife of the man who sits at the atmost left end.
(iv) Q is V's husband
(v)  M and his wife are the pair that occupy the middle pair position.
(vi) W's husband wants to sit by the side of T
(vii) V sits immediate next to (one of the men, i don't remember exactly)
He gave 4 multiple choice bits on the above puzzle.
6) There is another problem like this(data not exact and the calculation is also lengthy)
8 boys and 13 men construct 510 walls in 10 hrs.
12boys and 6 men construct 484 walls in 12 hrs.
Express the work done by a boy and a men together in walls/hr.
7) There are three friends A,B and C. A gives to B and C the same amount that they originally have. Now B gives to A and C
the same amount that they originally have. Now C gives to A and B the same amount that they originally have. After all this
happened, they each have 24 coins. What is the original number of coins that they have?
Ans: 39,21,12 (Simple, come from the final result i.e. 24 to back instead of solving it directly.)
(i am giving the steps from the final ans to backwards. 24,24,24-->12,12,48-->6,42,24-->39,21,12)
8) A train from New York goes to Washington goes every hour and on the hour. A train from Washington goes back to New York
every hour and on every half an hour. The journey from New York to Washington takes 5 hrs. So, if a person goes from New
York to Washington, how many trains will he observe coming in the opposite direction?
Ans: i put it 11 (since on reaching the destination, there is another train that is just about to start)
9) If I * I = ME and ME * ME=SHE then what does SHE represent? All letters uniquely represent different digits.
Ans: 256 (4*4=16, 16*16=256)
10) This is another 8 mark puzzle.
Some tribe celebrate their feast day (whopies) on Saturdays such that they celebrate on a Saturday which is as many
Saturdays away as the larger of the last two digits (eg: in 1963, the larger of the two digits is 6)of the year except if it
is a leap year.  It would be celebrated whopies one Saturday later than that of a normal year.
(a) what is the date of celebration of whopie in 1972 given that 1st March is Wednesday? Ans: 1st April
(b) which is the nearest year in which the whopie was celebrated in February? Ans: didn't try
                                                                                                                             
