PSG 2003
1.A number gives a remainder of 1 when divided by
2,3,4,5,6 and is divisibe by 11?whats the number?
Ans 121

2.There r three desks which consisting of 2 drawers
each.Each drawer is filled either with a black or red
ball.There r 3 labels naming RR,BB,RB.one desk
consists of both red and another both blue and the
third ared anda black ball.If these labels are to be
pasted accoridingly to their corresponding desks whats
the probablity that only one lable is pasted wrongly?
Ans  zero.(it cant be only one wrong, if one is wrong,the otherone is also wrong)

3.My age is 3 times my sons age and my fathers age is
40 yrs more than twice my age.all our ages combine to
give 1240 yrs.Whats my age?
Ans 360 yrs

4.Jack and Jill went up and down a hill.They started
from the bottom and Jack met jill again 20 miles from
the top while returning.Jack completed the race 1 min
a head of jill.if the hill is 440 mts high and their
speed while down journey is 1.5 times the up journey.
how long it took for the Jack to complete the race ?
ansMay be 6.3 min or 12.6 min(not sure)

5.how many nos formed by using the digits 1,2,3,4 with
no repititions are divisible by 4?
Ans  no. which is divisible by 4 must have the last two digits divisible by 4.     the last two digits are   12, 24,32
the nos.are: 3412,4312,1324,3124,1432,4132
the nos. are 3(2! * 2) = 6       

6.i have to catch a train by 6 AM. there is still time
remaining to catch the train.My friend told me that 50
min ago the time remaining was 3 times as much time as
that after 3 AM.How much time is remaining for my 
train? 
Ans 26 min (Sakunthala devi's Q no 2)

7.There is one GEORGE SUMMERS puzzle 
it goes like Three tribes nororeen,sororeen,midroreen  one who always speaks truth and onealways false and one alternatively truth and false and
some statements are given by A,B and C.based on those
statements u have to guess who is who?(who always
speaks truth and who false and ......)
Ans three tribes . A-nororeen- false always 
                           B- sororeen- true always
                            C-midroreen- alternate true and false

8.There is a truck driver starts from one place to
pick another person at another place.The driver goes
to that place by 6 AM.and then picking him he returns
back.one day the other person woke a bit early and
started walking towards the first place.one the way he
meets truck driver and joins him and both went back to
the first place.This day the other person came 20 min
early to the time he usually comes to the first
place?Tell the time when the driver met the second
person that day?
Ans 5.50 AM(Sakunthala devi's "WALKING BACK TO HAPPINESS")

9.analytical question.....this was based on the speculation  of 3 
ppl. whose guess is right? ans: alcit (3 marks)

10This is another common Infosys puzzling question. It is about some goals in a football match. The scoring system was given and the points scored by each team was asked. This, I was told was frequently asked in Infosys questions, so you should be able to get your hands on this one too.
 
    teams      played     won   lost     tie     goals for       goals against
        A          3                   -        -        1          0                      -        
        B          3                  1        -        -          -                       4 
        C          3                   -        -        -          -                       1
    
Ans
 teams      played     won   lost     tie     goals for       goals against
        A          3             0        1        1          0                         1   
        B          3             1        1        0        2                         4 
        C          3              1        0       1        4                          1

11.Four girls S,Robin,E,Mandy belonging to 4 families Clerks,Miller,Flure,Jacobs make salads out of four fruitssuch as apples,bananas,cherries,grapes. Each girl uses three fruits.No two families use the same combintion of fruits.
1.Robin who does not belong to miller's family uses apples
2.Clerk's family uses cherries and grapes.
3.Flure family use either cherry or grape
4.E does not belong to miller or Clerk family
5.Mandy and miller family use apples and cherries.

Questions
a.Which family did Robin belong to?
b. Which combination of fruits is used by miller family
c.Which fruit is not used by mandy
d. Which 2 fruits r common beteen Robin and E

answer(Check this)a-apple b-banana c-cherry g-grape
S 	Robin 	E	 Mandy
Miller	 Flure	 Jacob	 Clerk
abc 	abg 	cgb 	cga

The topic of the comprhension is "Avalanche kills"
 The first line of the comprehension generally gives the idea about the topic etc. Look for the structure and not for the details here.
 
The most important question in the reading comprehension is the question where "u will be asked to apply a learnt idea to a new situation" This is exactly what they are looking for. They will be sure to mention that in the pre-placement talk.
 
 Check out mathforum.org and allstarpuzzles.com
 Solve old papers. Atleast 4 -5 problems get repeated.

 
Good luck.        
